Theocratic projects are largely built
by volunteers from all over the world,
speaking different languages,
from different cultural backgrounds,
with different work practices
—things that could divide and create barriers.
One of the biggest challenges
for me has been the language
—above all, the accents
and the way people speak.
The ways of construction
are a bit different than what I’m used to.
That can create a challenge.
You might be used to doing something one way.
But then here we do it differently
because of different circumstances.
Initially, we thought that with a similar language,
things would be the same.
But even with a similar language,
we learned that there are differences
in how we speak and the things that we say.
Are you OK?
One of the things that I think probably
got us when we first arrived was the greeting.
We’re used to just saying “hello,”
but a lot of times we would be greeted with . . .
All right?
Hey, are you OK?
After being asked that
several times in the same day,
you begin to question
whether or not you actually are all right.
That’s just how they say “hello” here.
Oh, OK.
In the culture where I’m from,
people are a bit more straightforward
and to the point when they’re giving instructions,
which is not being rude.
It’s just the way we do it there.
Here I learned that it’s nice to ask:
“How are you?
How’s your day?
How was your weekend?”
—and then get to the point.
It’s something I got used to,
and I really like it
because you get to know
the brothers that you work with.
There are different ways
of saying the same thing.
Lauren, can I have the spanner, please?
Sure!
And the differences
aren’t really all that big.
Since you don’t know it,
it becomes a challenge to understand at first.
But it makes it a little more exciting
—a little fun!
Oh, it’s that one.
This one?
Oh, thank you.
A wrench.
It might be a way of doing things at home
that I’m used to
or that I’ve been learning in school.
But then here we do it differently.
It’s just a matter of obedience,
and you do as you are instructed.
At first, you might question,
“Why are we doing it differently?”
But if you’re patient and you wait,
then you realize that you’ve just learned
another way of doing something.
Hey, give me some guanti, please.
Something that is really nice to see
is that when I try to learn the language,
the brothers help me
—and that’s a real blessing!
Taking our time to learn
about the culture has really helped us
to understand why things are different.
And then, when you understand
why they’re different,
it doesn’t really bother you.
You understand your brothers and sisters,
and it makes it easier
for you to love them and to be positive.
We realized that we are the ones
that have to adapt to the new culture
—the new nation.
We have to have Christ’s mentality.
He came to serve, not to be served.
Spiritual things keep us united
—to not see the negatives in other cultures,
accents, and work practices.
Although there may be
deadlines and constraints,
keeping our spirituality up
is of the utmost importance.
Our overseers reminded us
of three nonnegotiable things:
our meeting attendance,
the field ministry, and our family worship.
Spirituality is everything
when it comes to overcoming challenges
because if you don’t have
a spiritual view of things, then you will struggle.
What continues to be more evident
is that if we take care of our spirituality,
then Jehovah will take care of the rest.
The work will get done.
The key to unity here on site is that everyone
is working on “the fruitage of the spirit.”
We need to be patient,
kind, loving, long-suffering.
They exhibit these qualities
that really pursue peace,
and it makes it easy; it makes it fun.
And you realize: ‘You know what?
We are just working with family.’
And of course, Jehovah’s spirit is clearly shown
in everything that we do.
Having all the different brothers and sisters
and the different cultures is special,
and it really does help you grow.
Where I worked before,
differences were an issue.
It’s beautiful to see, however,
that here it doesn’t matter
where you are from or what job you are doing.
We are all on the same level; we are all equal.
It makes you think of Revelation 7:9
where the scripture talks about people
of every tribe and nation and tongue
—and we’re one family.
And instead of just reading about it,
when we’re here we experience it.
When Nimrod was building the tower of Babel,
Jehovah used language to halt the project.
Yet, today, working on a project
with so many different languages and cultures,
Jehovah is unifying them
to make his project successful!